.TH BUILD_OLLAMA_TOOLS 1 2025-Jun "" "build_ollama_tools"
.SH NAME
build_ollama_tools \- build_ollama_tools(
    <i>deepseek</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fIbuild_ollama_tools(
    <i>deepseek</i> = <span style='color: blue !important;'>NULL</span>)\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Scans the R environment to dynamically construct and attach AI tools to the Ollama client. Handles both system-defined tools and custom functions with Ollama-specific attributes. System tools take precedence to prevent naming conflicts with user-defined tools.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
.PP
\fBdeepseek\fB \fR\- NULL. An Ollama client object to attach tools to. When NULL (default), uses the currently active client. Note that relying on implicit client selection is discouraged in production environments.
.PP
.SH VALUE
.PP
Invisibly returns the modified Ollama client object with attached tools.
.PP
.SH DETAILS
.PP
The toolset construction process includes two phases: \enumerate{ \item System Tool Injection - Adds a mandatory `sys_info` tool containing: \itemize{ \item System name and introduction text \item Developer information \item Programming language details \item GitHub repository URL \item License information } \item Environment Scanning - Detects functions with \code{@ollama} attributes: \itemize{ \item Requires \code{roxygen2}-style documentation for parameters and descriptions \item Extracts argument specifications from \code{@param} tags \item Identifies required parameters through documentation analysis } }
.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
\dontrun{ # Initialize client and build toolset client <- ollama::new_client() build_ollama_tools(client) # Check attached tools ollama::list_tools(client) }
.PP
.SH SEE ALSO
\code{\link{ollama::add_tool}} for the underlying tool attachment mechanism
.SH FILES
.PP
SMRUCC/R#.declare_function.build_ollama_tools at ollama_tools.R:line 60
.PP
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright © xieguigang, MIT Licensed 2025
